The Most Dangerous Escape (Sequal to "The Most Dangerous Game" by Richard Connell)

When Rainsford awoke from the immense comfort of the General’s bed, the true scope of his predicament began to set in. In this chapter of the nightmare of Ship-Trap Island, he was still trapped in the middle of the Caribbean with no apparent way home. Whitney had sailed off long ago with the ship, and there was no chance he would dare set back to this accursed island.
He set off through the house, searching for anything that seemed to be of use. As he passed the window that overlooked the dogs, he saw them gnawing at the bones of their last meal. He could hear their growls, even from where he looked down from, a deep, low rumbling that seemed to shake the earth. Rainsford shuddered. He thought it best to not think of the events of the last few days.
He arrived at Zaroff’s panelled dining hall, and came to the realization that he’s at least sheltered from the dangers of the island. That brought him a bit of ease, no matter how small.
He continued to explore the manor, finding some items that could aid him in getting home. There was the General’s vaults, filled with gold, which he could use to purchase a means of transport back to his home in New York, should he make it back to the mainland. There was also Zaroff’s workshop, filled with various tools and items. Rainsford figured he could use them to make something to help him escape, perhaps a raft or small boat.
Finally, there was the weaponry. Filled with countless hunting rifles, pistols, and shotguns, of all different types and calibers. There were bolt-action Springfields, Enfield SMLEs, and Smith & Wessons. There also were some bows and arrows, and even some larger crossbows that seemed to be very powerful. At first Rainsford was thoroughly blown away, but then he realized what these various weapons had been used for, the lives they had taken, and he was left with a sour taste in his mouth.
Rainsford eventually made his way to the General’s library, which also happened to double as his office. There he saw what appeared to be a telephone mounted to the wall. He was confused for a moment– how could there be a telephone on a seemingly deserted island? –but he did remember Zaroff saying something regarding the island having electricity, so perhaps it wasn’t quite as farfetched as he thought. There was a light on it, and it was flashing. Rainsford didn’t have the faintest idea what the purpose of the blinking light was, and he decided to try to find out. He picked up the receiver and pressed a button that was beside the light.
At first there was nothing, then abruptly, there was a crackling static sound, like a thousand rattlesnakes who wouldn’t take kindly to being disturbed. Rainsford, startled, nearly jumped out of his skin, but kept the receiver held close to his ear. And then a man’s voice, a little distorted but a voice nonetheless, came out of the earpiece.
“Zaroff, I hope this message makes it to you in good health. It is me, your old friend Commander Vladimir Volkov. I still can’t believe we have this private messaging system. It is truly wonderous. These new devices people come up with never cease to amaze me. But that’s beside the point.
“The reason I’m sending you this is to let you know that in a week's time I will be coming to your island to enjoy a session of hunting with my good friend, as a celebration of your fiftieth birthday. I apologize for the short notice, but of course I have my own duties, and you know how difficult it is to fit in time with you, my friend. You know how it is, the life of a soldier.”
There came laughter through the device, and Rainsford shuddered, beginning to realize what this Volkov visiting the island, and finding out what had happened to his brother in arms, meant for him. The Commander continued speaking.
“Anyhow, I cannot wait to see you once more. I look forward to the good hunting I know you have on your island. Do svidaniya!”
There was a click, and the telephone went silent. Rainsford stood in shock, and then slowly bent down to look at the small display mounted on the device. It said the message had been sent last night, only shortly after Rainsford’s final stand against Zaroff.
This meant that there was only six days until the commander reached the island.
As this dawned upon Rainsford, he slowly backed away. His mind was racing. What should he do? Should he fight? Hide? Attempt to flee the island?
Then he calmed down and began to think clearly, the same coolheadedness from when he had fallen off the ship overtaking him once more. He at once began to devise a plan to escape the island. He would have to work quickly.
About twelve hours before Volkov was slated to arrive on the island, Rainsford finished work. He had spent the last couple of days gathering resources, building a large and sturdy raft, and most importantly, setting traps. He had set multiple snares at any spot he suspected the Commander might show up at. He planned to wait until the Commander arrived, and then leave from the opposite side of the island. He had set his stash of supplies in what he assumed to be the center of the island, so that, when he sees Volkov reach the island, he can quickly drag everything in any direction necessary, and reach the open sea in as little time as possible. The traps were only to slow the Commander down if need be. They were just a precaution: he wanted to avoid as much confrontation as possible.
Now all there was left to do was make some final preparations, and then wait.
Rainsford began by securing everything to the raft he had constructed. He had used some balsa wood to make a sturdy yet light frame, and then tied everything together with some rope he had found in the General’s home. There was a collapsable mast toward the center of the raft, and he had fashioned a sail out of some fabric. He used some large pieces of tree bark to make a rudder and some oars, and he used some wheels from Zaroff’s workshop to make a cart, so as to allow him to easily move it long distances if need be.
He had gathered any non-perishable foods he could find in the General’s kitchen, and he loaded them into a compartment he had built into the raft. There were also a few containers of drinking water (it would not have been wise to go out into the open ocean without it), a few large pots that Rainsford could not only use to cook food in, but also fill with extra wood and make a fire inside of, and a large coat that he filled the pockets of with a compass and a lighter. There was one of the General’s guns, a few reloads, a hunting knife, and a fishing pole. Finally, there was a large tarp, which he could cover everything with should it begin to rain.
Once everything was organized and set up, Rainsford laid down to rest. He was exhausted, and he planned on being fully rested when he had to leave. He checked the position of the sun, and he could tell that there was only about ten hours left. He closed his eyes, and fell asleep
Rainsford awoke to the screeching of birds around him and the rumbling of a plane overhead. He shot up and rushed to see where the plane was coming from. He saw it land on the Northeast side of the island, so Rainsford grabbed a rope and began to pull the cart that held the raft toward the Southwest.
He reached the rocky shores of Ship-Trap Island in less than half of an hour, and just as he was unloading the raft, he heard a man’s voice shouting out, distinguishable even from a ways away.
“He must have found one of the traps,” Rainsford began to say out loud, but then he stopped himself; he should focus on the task at hand. He mustn't let anything else distract him. He continued to prepare to set off.
Not too much later, Rainsford pushed the raft into the water, and with oars in hand, began to row out to sea. He heard more shouting, but only very faintly, as he was focused on the effort of rowing. The shouts got louder, and suddenly, there was an immense splash of water just behind Rainsford’s vessel. He looked back at the shoreline, almost 200 yards away. Standing on the rocks, almost imperceptible due to the distance, was the figure of a man holding a handgun. It was Volkov.
Red with rage after discovering the remains of Zaroff, he had gone on a rampage, shooting everything in sight. He had eventually found Rainsford far out to sea, and started shooting in his direction. When he ran out of bullets, he began to swim out into the open water. But his rage left him exhausted, and without anything left in him, he sunk into the depths of the Caribbean.
Rainsford, still rowing away as fast as possible, sees the bubbles float up to the surface. Slightly relieved but still on edge, he keeps going. He checks his compass, raises the mast, and unfurls the sail. He sets off into the distance, and this chapter of his adventure comes to an end.
